---
title: Between God and Myself
date: 2026-03-05
---

God. An all-knowing, all-seeing, omnipotent entity which created the universe as we know it and us. A concept I have grown seeing in different lights in different periods of times. My early childhood was spent listening to stories about the different gods of the Indian Pantheon. Ganesha’s wisdom, Hanuman’s mischief, Shiva’s anger, and Indra’s ego showed  me characters of great interest. A few years later, I started to question my belief in the existence of these characters. Could an elephant headed man really be alive from a biological standpoint? Was it really possible for a living being to wield lightning and thunder as weapons? Could these divine powers actually even exist within the laws which this divinity itself created apparently? I wasn’t so sure anymore. With a newfound knowledge and understanding of science from school and the boundless corners of the internet, I was beginning to question this divine power’s legitimacy. At about the age of 11, influenced by immense use of science and logic, I reached that stage where I could not continue to say that I believed in this power we call God. Now, only 7 years later, I have a much more nuanced opinion about the concept. Not entirely believing in it and yet slightly holding belief. I can say now that I have been down both the roads and now I stand back at the crossroad. Sometimes wondering if I should make a choice.

Turn Left. “Path of God”, “Path of the Light”, “Path of Ignorance”; it has a lot of names. They all talk of the same thing, the belief in the existence of a higher power. God tends to give people hope. Hope is a fragile thing, often shattered by reality. When that hope breaks, the 'God' who provided it quickly transforms from a savior into a scapegoat. This power is the object of blame for millions of people. “Why did you do this to us?”, “Did we deserve such a life?”, such questions arise in the minds of believers too. Such a mindset is what I saw and began questioning the lord. Is God just an object of blame? Was there ever such a being who decided that for the world to be happy, they must have someone to blame, someone to curse. We like to say that God is also responsible for all the good in the world, but in the large scheme of things, people can’t see a lot of good. So what if God isn’t meant to be a being to worship but rather to scorn? What if, that too, is a path to God. With these questions in mind, I began to turn away from the omnipotent being of all blame. I began to see myself as my own God. Capable of my own decisions and their consequences. I turned to atheism. My newfound beliefs did shock my parents. I still remember when I told them that I didn’t feel good in temples. Which honestly, was true, and I had a feeling that most people don’t. Most people don’t actually feel the nature of a place or a person. Which lead me to believe people’s beliefs were based on a herd mindset. So I’m pretty sure I wasn’t all that different, I was just aware that I wasn’t feeling good about being in a temple. I reached the end of the fork, turned back, and at the crossroads, without hesitation, turned right.

Turn Right, the Path of Science, of Rationality. People think its about hating or rejecting God. It’s not. It’s about being your own God. When your concept and understanding of the ever shining being of transcendental beauty and hope is torn apart, you crave something which builds a semblance of balance in your mind. I found my balance in the laws of science and my ground on my own rational thinking. When the definition of good or bad isn’t decided by Sins and Virtues decided by a religious structure, you start to try to build your own definition. It was in this time that I found the definition of good which most people use. Continuity. The continuation of that which is important to you. We all have a list of things ranked by importance. When deciding the right thing to do, we look at that list, and choose to continue that which is higher on the list. Armed with my own mind and the commandments of the sciences I studied. I was my own person. My individual was and unwavering flame which couldn’t be extinguished. I was the highest tower in this small world around me. I held these thoughts in my mind. Ego. The river which carves down the largest of mountains. My tower couldn’t stand either. My small world kept getting larger as I grew up. Things and People I never knew about became a part of my thinking. My ego, which had grown with this self reliance tore what I knew down. And so I walked the only path I knew. The path back to the crossroads.

Back at the crossroads. I stand here today, not knowing if God is real or not. I now try to think in both directions. The things which were once very deterministic to me were now proof of the probabilistic nature of the question which has knocked at my door multiple times now. I reached a conclusion. What if, just what if, God didn’t matter. Not in a nihilistic sense, but just more, practical. God doesn’t really… interfere. Whether it is or it is not present, shouldn’t affect my life. I don’t reject God anymore. I still, to some extent, believe that I am God. But it isn’t based on ego or rebellion anymore. It’s simply that way because if God doesn’t exist, then I am writing my own future. If God does exist, then my actions are still paving the path for the rewards I may get later in life. Either way, the sole purpose remains the same. Take action. Take action towards what you believe is right. After that, whether by causality or by God, you will get your results. Honestly, I feel like I don’t even have to think about the consequences of my actions now. As long as I do what I think is right, I will get what I deserve. If I don’t deserve it, I will not receive that as a consequence. My life, with or without God, is going to be an amalgamation of results which come from my own actions. And if, I remember that, if there is a God. Maybe I will attain moksha. Or heaven, I’m not sure, but that’s a conversation for another time.
