---
title: Worlds Within Words
date: 2026-02-12
---

Colour, Cloth, even Clouds, people have given feelings to Numbers and Names, just as much as we have to Nooks and Books. Connotations. The baggage that comes with every word, every sound, every thing that surrounds us. It's fascinating, really. The way we haven't just made language to express what we mean, but also constantly change the weight and meaning behind words every day. Every time someone uses "hate" lightly and every time someone says they're in "distress", we change how much weight the people around us associate with these words. We people, we control the very idea of these words with each breath that twangs the chords of our larynx. We hold our hearts close and the knives to hurt it, closer.

We've heard how farmers toil on the fields day in and day out, but have you felt it? When we say "toiling the fields", do we feel the weight of the Plough? Most of us wouldn't. Do we imagine the sun's harsh beams striking down upon us, or the vibrating ground as our sweat drips upon it? Doubtful. But ask any farmer, and they'll feel the dryness in their throat as they walk towards the closest shed to take a break. So, even in this world so connected, we have our own individual connotations. To the farmer, "toil" holds the weight of the plough, the heat of the sun, and the dryness in his throat, but to us, it holds nothing more than that one exhausting excursion we went on with our family.

This difference within people isn't noticeable until you go out of your bubble in the world. When you go to a new bar and talk to a biker there. When their "distress" means obsessive repeated actions after a life altering incident and yours means the creeping feeling in your spine when you see an accident on your way to work. When those two gears come in contact, rotating at different speeds? Crash. Bang. Hiss. When the smoke rises? That is when you notice the difference between people. That is when you notice that language is a pair of baggy jeans with patches put onto a child. It gets the job done, sure, but does it look good? Not a shred.

So, what is language? Is it just sounds we make which mean different things? Or is it more? What we've seen here points towards the latter. Language is messy, it's just as much that plough or gears, as it is that pair of jeans. But also, language is beautiful. It's that sunflower staring at the sun in the day, or that moth flying towards a flame. You see how that demonstrates everything above? Sometimes, the winds playing sounds in your throat become mountains inside of someone's brain.
